I am a critic of the left-wing view of
wealth and social inequality I'm a
critic of both the left-wing
understanding of the problem and the
left-wing proposal for the solution but
as you may have heard me say on this
channel recently I nevertheless do
support the eventual objective of
eliminating the billionaire class I
support that objective for different
reasons and with different concerns from
anyone who represents the left-wing
today and to my knowledge actually my
approach this issue is different from
any left-wing movement that has existed
in the past it's maybe easier to
understand what my position now is like
now meaning in the year 2020 and looking
ahead to the future of democracy and
planet Earth it's easy to understand
what my position is if we talk about a
kind of ancient or medieval Society
precisely because we have so much
detachment and looking back at that
medieval society and we maybe even have
detachment in looking at the way in
which we manufacture propaganda about
the type of society we aspire to have in
future out of the analysis or appraisal
of those historical societies what was
right with them and what was wrong with
them right um many people on the Left
insist on regarding aristocrats as
social parasites they look back at the
history of medieval Europe or medieval
Asia
because we could be talking about China
Japan Thailand any of these countries
and they see the role of the aristocrat
paradoxically as being like a beggar
just takes money for his or her own
enjoyment and then this this money is
wasted or disappears my perspective
historically is a much more sober and I
think fair assessment of what the
function of aristocrats was in in that
society and now it's true I have my
modern perspective my modern analysis
that that was a bad
but the sense in which aristocracy was a
bad thing was precisely because I
believe something better could exist if
you about abolished the aristocracy if
you removed the the aristocracy as a
kind of obstruction to progress so
that's that's my belief and that's my
bias but I'm not so blind as to pretend
that the aristocrats were merely social
parasites or that they had no positive
social function so in the English Civil
War the reality is the aristocrats are
the people collecting taxes and giving
them to the government the aristocrats
before the war begins are people who
devote all of their time and energy to
breeding horses for war they don't even
know what the next war is gonna be but
they got a breed horses for and the
minute there is a war the government or
the King comes and steals all their
horses and puts them into war right so
when all their wealth is going into
producing the requirements for the
military but in this period of history
there isn't like a bureaucratically
separate professional military the
military is precisely what the King
gathers together from the aristocrats or
what the government gathers together as
as you like to put it um all of their
time and energy is going into preparing
for war and apart from that their lives
are devoted to agriculture now this is a
very grim society I don't approve of
this society but it's totally false to
offer an analysis of the society as if
the aristocrats are doing nothing as if
the aristocrats are just stealing money
from the peasants for their own
enjoyment as if the aristocrats are
social parasites now I dislike the
Society of England in the Dark Ages and
it's very easy for me to look back and
say well you guys could have had a much
more wonderful society if you imitate in
the society of ancient Athens right a
democracy however imperfect we could now
launch into a criticism of the many ways
in which the Society of ancient Athens
was also bad or imperfect a flood but it
was better than the Dark Ages in England
it was better than having a society that
exists by and for the aristocrats
and this problem is so profound that it
has nothing to do with the personal
virtue or personal vice of aristocrats
as individuals even if all of the
aristocrats each even if each and every
one of them is a really good person a
really virtuous person a really
charitable person even if every single
one of them really cares about helping
the poor for example nevertheless you
have this horrible distorting effect on
society as a whole because the
domination of that society by its
wealthy class the domination of that
society by the aristocrats inexorably
produces a government a polity that
exists by and for the aristocrats my
point being even in the absence of any
overarching scheme even in the absence
of any plan class interests the cultural
dominance of the ruling class will
completely warp the development of
something like the university education
system United States through thoughtless
accretion without any kind of grand
scheme without any plot or conspiracy
and in this way they build themselves
around the interests of the ruling class
sometimes with none of the people
participating even being aware that
they're doing it why is the American
University system designed in the way
it's designed well it's not a system
it's not designed but anyone and
everyone who analyzes the way
universities work in the United States
they say well gee this was made for the
rich this was made by and for the
wealthiest people in America and it
works pretty well for their interests
but then when you look at it from even a
middle class perspective let alone a
poor people's perspective this is crazy
the American University system doesn't
work well at all
well it wasn't designed as a charity to
benefit the poor and help the poor
become medical doctors right you can say
in a sense it was created by an
for the rich it reflects the interests
of and cultural values of the ruling
class in this way with no central
planning with no plot with no grand
scheme right it's not the case that
billionaires are cynical often plotting
how to make American Universities
overpriced and accessible and wasteful
and grandiose it just happened
it just develops out of that cultural
and political context and produces
institutions that reflect those class
interests the interests of that ruling
class right now France the university
system is completely different from the
United States America and it has its own
advantages and disadvantages Germany the
university system completely different
from United States of America right what
I just said about the university system
in America is not true of Germany or
France I'm trying to get divorced in
France I have been trying to get
divorced in France for many years let me
tell you something the French legal
system the French court system is
designed by the rich for the rich at
every stage of this process I have to
ask how could this possibly work if I
couldn't spend like $30,000 a year on
lawyers and legal fees okay
and I'm not even in a criminal situation
this isn't even about justice or
injustice I'm just trying to get
divorced it is impossible to get
divorced in France if you were in my
situation if you don't have a lot of
money to flush down the drain if you
can't spend a huge amount of money year
after year after year you will never be
able to get divorced in France you will
never be able to pursue justice and
nobody planned it that way all right
it's not the case that people in
government or members of a nervous
aristocracy sat down and schemed and
connive to produce a legal system that's
prejudicial against the poor or that
only works to the rich this is just the
way the cookie crumbled this is just and
that's not an excuse you know the
government of France ought to be
passionately interested in justice for
all the government in the United States
America ought to really be interested in
well what about the people who can't
afford to pay bail what about the people
who can't afford to spend $30,000 in a
lawyer what about people who don't have
access to justice
what about the people for whom this
system doesn't work while acknowledging
at the same time this system probably
does work really well for maybe the
wealthiest 10% of people I don't know I
don't know if it's 10 percent or 20
percent you could investigate that ok so
I think when we talk about particular
examples like this how the university
system works how the health care system
works how the legal system works how the
administration of justice works but then
ultimately how Parliament works how the
Senate works how Congress works but if
you live in a country with the system of
parliament you may find if you do the
research that multimillionaires and the
owners of huge corporations have a very
easy time having their voices heard in
parliamentary Affairs committees in
congressional inquiries that they have a
very easy time getting a meeting with a
member of parliament or getting their
message delivered at native in
Parliament and this is a system also
that was designed to work for one social
class and not another in a genocidal
country like Canada it's very clear that
we have a representative system of
government that was not meant to
represent the indigenous people right it
was meant to represent a certain class
of white British settler colonists and
that's still reflected in the design of
government the operation of government
to this day my point being even in the
absence of any overarching scheme even
in the absence of any plan class
interests the cultural dominance of the
ruling class will completely warp the
development of something like the
university education system United
States or the process of the law in
France there are her defects that come
about not because any one aristocrat had
some kind of Machiavellian scheme had
some kind of plan to shape society in
this way the society itself comes to
exist for aristocrats
it's not a government by the people for
the people it's a government by the
aristocrats for the aristocrats even if
none of them really wanted it that way
and each of those aristocrats is busy
coping with their own agricultural
problems and raising horses and
preparing for war and they may have the
best of intentions and they may perceive
themselves as trying to help the poor
and nevertheless that's the way the
society is going to go I can look at
each of these societies historically and
I can positively appreciate the role
aristocrats are playing the function of
aristocrats what is being done with the
wealth in that society while at the same
time I would like to call for the
abolition of that class I would like to
call for the abolition of aristocracy
I'd like to call for the completely
profound transformation okay
now likewise it's completely false
to me it's alienating and stupid when I
see left-wing people claiming that
landlords are just parasites it's
exactly the same mentality but applied
to the present day No
I even feel a sense of gratitude towards
my landlords okay the landlord's I've
had I've lived in all these different
cities around the world my landlords
provided me with a home and in the
future because people's employment is
becoming more and more itinerant you
know people don't just live in the same
city the role lives they don't just have
the same job their lives people move
from place to place with new jobs and
education this increasing mobility of
Labor we really need a relationship with
our landlords which is almost like a
member of the family however even if all
of the landlords are virtuous people
even if you lived in a country where
every single landlord was kind and
caring and courteous and helpful towards
you you know my current landlord he's
he's pretty nice to me mail he's helpful
towards me you know I know you can have
a bad landlord you can have an immoral
and have a dishonest own but even if
every single landlord is kind and
virtuous towards their tenants and let's
say every single landlord also care
helping the poor let's just say they're
also charitable people who when their
spare time takes some of the money that
makes a landlord let's just say you live
in a country with a 100% rate of
virtuous landlords nevertheless the
problem is we live in a society that is
by the rich for the rich we have
government that is of the landlords by
the landlords of the landlords for the
landlords
not by the people of the people for the
people you see in this way you can end
up with the society that even in the
absence of anyone having bad intentions
even in the absence of a figure like
Napoleon who sees this as his
opportunity to seize control and seizes
control and becomes a dictator which
certainly happens with multimillionaires
and billionaires
they seize control of government
outright this is this was also already
in Aristotle's time a major concern that
if you allow wealth to accumulate in a
few hands you're gonna slip from
democracy to oligarchy to dictatorship
perhaps not in that order this this is a
fundamental problem even if nobody has
any bad intentions so my approach this
issue is based on a positive
appreciation of the role of aristocrats
and aristocracy a positive appreciation
of the role of the investment
capitalists the venture capitalists the
landlords the billionaire class in a
capitalist society but in both cases
this positive role they're playing now
conceals something that's much harder to
see in the same way that people in
medieval England or people in the Dark
Ages in the Ottoman Empire in Turkey in
the same way that those people couldn't
easily imagine how much better their
whole society could be if they would
abolish the aristocratic class and
instead of a democracy even a democracy
as flawed as ancient Athens or even a
democracy as flawed as Switzerland today
in Switzerland it's positive example of
democracy with direct democracy and in
the modern world okay but but of course
what's the one has its own problems it's
imperfect it's not an ideal it was so
hard for people to imagine how their
society
could be made better by eliminating the
very social class that they were
dependent upon for everything in the
same way I depend on my landlord to be
good for me people depended on
aristocrats to defend them to lead them
in war for so many these fundamental
social functions right it's very very
hard to see that in the same way I feel
right now it's not the weakness of
capitalism it's not the oppression of
the poor it's not the poverty in
capitalism that makes it hard to see how
we can have a better say it's the
success of capitalism it's the wealth of
capitalism it's the comfort of
capitalism it's the fact that life is so
easy if the fact that conformity is so
easy that conforming to the system
participating in this sense the benefit
of is so easy that it's hard to picture
what could be better if we would abolish
this billionaire class and take steps
towards having a truly democratic
society
[Music]